---
title: Espanso
header: Espanso
description: A quick review of the coolest tool I've found recently
permalink: /espanso/
layout: post
---

I wanted to dedicate today's post to the coolest tool I have found recently. Shout out to <a href="https://qwxlea.ml/">Alex</a> for introducing me to it!

Enter <a href="https://espanso.org/">Espanso.</a>

So what is it? Espanso is a text expander written in Rust. After reading that I still only had an idea of what it was. I had never used a text expander before. I figured why not just try it out?

Set-up was easy enough. Very easy. The hardest part was accessing the Library folder on my Mac, which if you didn't know, can be accessed through any Finder window. Just open Finder, select the "Go" tab,
and hold the option key. You will see the Library folder appear in the tab.

But you don't even have to do that. Out of the box it comes with very simple functionality, including a built-in signature command as well as other packages you can add. I had to modify the existing signature command a little to match my style. A quick modification to the config.yml file and I was ready to go. Now I could type:

<pre>
<code>
:sig
</code>
</pre>

and the following would appear:

<pre>
<code>
Best Regards,

Ryan
</code>
</pre>

I was very impressed. Now, I know, most email providers have a built-in signature. But I'm not trying to split hairs here. It feels faster to me and it's cool. So I'm going to use it.

The additional packages I use include emojis, an html expander, and :shrug, cause I'm a nerd. There are a lot of other packages as well.

I immediately found this to be a useful tool and something fun I can mess around with. Maybe I can save enough time to finally start roasting my own coffee?


Day 16: #100DaysToOffload
