---
title: Question 2
header: Question 2
description: A ten day exploration of some interesting questions - Day 2
permalink: /question2/
layout: post
---

This is day 2 of 10 of working on some personal growth. Feel free to start at the <a href="https://blog.mooreanalysis.com/question1/">beginning.</a>

<h2> Day 2: Where am I feeling the Resistance? </h2>

This will be a continuation of sorts from yesterday, as a lot of the resistance I am feeling is internal. Specifically, trying to change some bad habits I have developed during the pandemic.

Resistance is natural. It is probably healthy. Whenever we seek to make changes in our lives, we are naturally going to feel internal resistance. I think this is a good sign.

We may also face external resistance. Sometimes the changes we make don't sit well with others. This can be for a variety of reasons. Others may get jealous of the progress your making. It may also be as simple as maybe you go to bed early like an old man or don't drink anymore. Again, I think some resistance in this area is healthy. If you have a strong support system, perhaps they are seeing something your not. Heed their wisdom. But if it's clear that you need to make changes, take what everyone else says with a grain of salt.

I am experiencing both of these in my current journey. Internally, I don't want to change. I don't want to exercise and or eat healthy. Generally, I want to sit around and do nothing. Externally, I created an image for myself and the changes that I'm trying to make are in stark contrast to that.

I think all of this is healthy. I want to lean into this resistance and continue to grow.

This can be exhausting. But anything worth having is worth fighting for.

Day 20: #100DaysToOffload
