---
title: Actors
header: Actors
description: A summary of my favorite actors and actresses
permalink: /actors/
layout: post
---
This will be part 1 of 2 on films. I thought a good place to start would be to share my favorite actors and actresses. I have been a movie buff since I was young and love how now almost anyone can watch any number of movies anytime, anywhere. Don't get me wrong, I've spent time searching the library shelves, but I will never turn down streaming.

Without further ado, let's get right into it. First, for the actresses, including my favorite movie with each.

<ul>
  <li>Alicia Vikander: Ex Machina</li>
  <li>Emily Blunt: The Girl on the Train</li>
  <li>Anya Taylor-Joy: Thoroughbreds</li>
</ul>

And for the actors:

<ul>
  <li>Sam Rockwell: The Best of Enemies</li>
  <li>Daniel Day Lewis: Gangs of New York</li>
  <li>Emory Cohen: Beneath the Harvest Sky</li>
  <li>Ben Foster: Leave No Trace</li>
</ul>

OK, say I cheated on the actors. Fact is, Emory Cohen and Ben Foster are too excellent in the movies I've seen and I can never decide. I lean towards Ben Foster but since Emory Cohen is hopefully just getting started, I will give him the benefit of the doubt.

Also, I haven't seen all of their films. These are all subject to change, but with roughly 1500 films logged, this is what I have so far.

Part two of this post will be to give some of my favorite films as well as introduce <a href="https://letterboxd.com/">Letterboxd</a> to those of you who aren't familiar with it.

Also, if there are any other movie buffs out there let me know!

Day 7: #100DaysToOffload
