---
title: SPSS to R
header: SPSS to R
description: Translating an SPSS algorithm into R
permalink: /SPSStoR/
layout: post
---

I was hoping to share some code with this post, but alas, that will have to wait
for a later date. I can't seem to get it formatted the way I want and screenshots of it
look terrible.

But, I can at least explain what I am doing and my thought process I'm using
to approach the task.

As an aspiring data analyst/data scientist, I am constantly looking for new data
sets to work with. I received feedback early on in my job hunt that I needed to work
with larger data sets. These are readily available at websites like <a href="
https://www.kaggle.com/">kaggle.</a>

However, being the type of person that I am, I wanted to work with some data that
not a lot of people were working with. As I started searching, I remembered a rather
unique article I ran across in the <a href="https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2017/11/27/the-serial-killer-detector">New Yorker.</a>

I sent a short email to the author of the Murder Accountability Project (MAP) asking
for permission to use the data for some personal projects. Shortly thereafter, I got
a reply - and an offer. The algorithm that the MAP relied on for serial killer
detection was originally written in SPSS. However, moving forward, the author
wanted to have a working version in R. After a short conversation, I agreed to take
on this challenge.

Now, I barely knew what SPSS was at the time. I definitely didn't know how to
read it. But several days later, I started the task of re-writing the algorithm in R.

Since I am currently a student and don't really have a set schedule, I find that
I work best on something like this if I spend 10-20 minute chunks of time on it
throughout the day. I try to do these chunks 2-3 times per day. So, my normal process
could be described as follows:

<ul>
  <li>Read what I did yesterday</li>
  <li>Try to interpret the SPSS code (email if I can't figure it out, after
  search engine of course)</li>
  <li>Re-write it in R, which is sometimes easy and other times ends up being
  very different than the spirit of the SPSS code. I often re-visit it the next
  day and re-write/modify accordingly.</li>
  <li>Run the code and fix any errors.</li>
  <li>Compare my output to the SPSS output. Make changes as necessary.</li>
  <li>Repeat</li>
</ul>

Overall, I have found this process incredibly rewarding. I am getting close to the
end of the project and hope to finish it in a few weeks. I could probably finish
it in a day or two if I really buckled down but I honestly don't think that would
be as fun or rewarding. Plus, I have other things on my plate.

Hopefully in the future I can actually share some code and give a more clear idea
of what I've been doing. Until then, I hope this was interesting.


Day 4: #100DaysToOffload
